

DATA CARPENTRY GOES TO THE NETHERLANDS


ELIXIR sponsored Data Carpentry workshop"

LAST WEEK, BETWEEN 22ND AND 25TH JUNE, WE RAN A DATA CARPENTRY HACKATHON
AND WORKSHOP AT THE UNIVERSITY OF UTRECHT, NETHERLANDS. BOTH EVENTS WERE
A PART OF ELIXIR PILOT PROJECT AIMING TO DEVELOP DATA AND SOFTWARE
CARPENTRY TRAINING ACROSS THE ELIXIR NODES. THE PROJECT IS COORDINATED
BY ELIXIR UK AND A NUMBER OF OTHER NODES ARE PARTNERING UP, INCLUDING
ELIXIR NETHERLANDS, ELIXIR FINLAND AND ELIXIR SWITZERLAND.

The hackathon consisted of two days during which the participants
representing 10 ELIXIR Nodes worked on Data Carpentry training
materials. The first day started with an introduction to the Data and
Software Carpentry teaching model. This was followed by a review and
discussion of the existing materials. The participants made suggestions
about possible improvements for the existing materials and new topics to
be developed. The overall theme of the hackathon was “genomics” and
hence the participants could base their work on the existing material
for teaching genomics in Data Carpentry. Eventually three groups were
formed:

-   Group 1 which worked on creating training materials on using ELIXIR
    Cloud resources.
-   Group 2 which worked on a decision tree for using cloud computing.
-   Group 3 which worked on different aspects of understanding how to
    use one’s data for genomics. In particular the group worked on
    describing the file formats, file manipulation, pipelines
    integration, post-assembly - de novo RNA Transcriptome Analysis,
    handling blast annotation output and verifying data.

The hackathon was facilitated by Karthik Ram (University of California,
Berkeley, rOpenSci, Data Carpentry) and Aleksandra Pawlik (the Software
Sustainability Institute’s Training Lead). After the hackathon Karthik
and Aleksandra taught a 2-day Data Carpentry workshop. It was the first
Data Carpentry workshop in the Netherlands. Thirty students from life
science research areas participated. The workshop covered the standard
Data Carpentry curriculum. One module was added at the end of the second
day. This module covered using ELIXIR Cloud resources to allow us to
test out the materials created during the hackathon.

The whole event received positive feedback and this pilot project
appears to have had a great reception within ELIXIR. The Slovenian and
Belgian Nodes are running workshops this year and it is likely that
others will follow soon.
