

“STARTING OFF DATA CARPENTRY IN 2016”


Several workshops starting off Data Carpentry in 2016"

In 2015 we were just starting out as an organization and ran limited
workshops as we were working to scale. With many Software Carpentry
instructors now certified as Data Carpentry instructors, our Program
Coordinator, Maneesha Sane, coordinating workshops, a new website and an
instructor database, in 2016 we’re set to do a lot more!

The website was a bit behind our 2016 activities, so we’d like to
highlight some workshops that have happened already.

WORKSHOPS

Already we have run 4 workshops. We were very excited to start off
teaching at two great organizations on the same dates, USDA-ARS and
London Natural History Museum. A great thanks to O.P. Perara at USDA-ARS
for hosting that workshop and John Moreau and Zhuo Fu for instructing. A
full set of instructors ran the Natural History Museum workhshop, and
thanks to Ahmad Alam, Martin Callaghan, Malcolm Penn and Consuelo
Sendino.

Two other workshops were the last few pilots of the Genomics lessons, to
finish preparing them for prime time teaching this year. Many people
from the Genomics and Assessment Hackathon and others have put in an
incredible amount of work to get this workshop version together, and
we’ll have a full post on these lessons soon. Jason Williams, Sheldon
McKay and Matthew Aiello-Lammens taught one at Stonybrook University and
Amanda Charbonneau and Will Pitchers taught a one day segment at BEACON
at Michigan State.

We’re just starting to schedule more for the months ahead. You can see
upcoming workshops on our Upcoming Workshops page. If you don’t see a
workshop in your region and are interested in having one, become a host
and request a workshop! Or contact us for more information.
