

“ANNOUNCING PARTNERSHIPS”


There are now opportunities to be partners with Data Carpentry and Software Carpentry"

We’ve been hearing of the interest of organizations to build local
capacity for training and to be able run both Data and Software
Carpentry workshops. WE ARE EXCITED TO ANNOUNCE THAT DATA CARPENTRY AND
SOFTWARE CARPENTRY ARE NOW OFFERING JOINT PARTNERSHIPS! These
partnerships will give member organizations the benefits of running
workshops from either the Software Carpentry or Data Carpentry
community. At the Silver and above tiers there will also be instructor
training and capacity building services provided.

Partnership Information

THERE ARE FOUR TIERS OF PARTNERSHIPS: BRONZE, SILVER, GOLD AND PLATINUM.

We wanted to provide opportunities for organizations to run multiple
workshops, but who aren’t currently planning to train instructors
(Bronze) and help organizations build local capacity with instructor
training, coordinated workshops and self-organized workshops (Silver,
Gold). There is also a flexible tier for organizations who are advancing
beyond just capacity building and on to sustainment and wide adoption of
our methods across disciplines (Platinum).

In all Partnerships, some coordinated workshops are included, so that
organizations are freely able (with a small travel budget) to bring in
outside instructors to help mentor new instructors and continue to
encourage cross-connections of instructors across organizational
boundaries. Also, all Partner organizations can run as many
self-organized workshops as they like.

All currently in-place partnerships with the Software Carpentry
Foundation will be grandfathered into a joint partnership consistent
with their current contract until the current partnership expires, at
which time they can select to have a joint partnership or a standalone
Software Carpentry or Data Carpentry partnership as they choose.

Interested in a partnership or want more information, please get in
touch!
