

“OUR LONG-TERM ASSESSMENT RESULTS ARE IN!”


A discussion of learner outcomes more than six months after attending a Carpentries workshop."

What concrete changes are people implementing in their computational
research practices as a result of completing a Carpentries workshop?

Our long term survey report shows that two-day Software or Data
Carpentry workshops are effective for increasing skills and confidence,
and the adoption of reproducible research perspectives. We see gains in
our survey measures for learners’ motivation to continue their learning,
change in reproducible research behavior, and frequency of use of
computational skills and tools. We find this very exciting, especially
since a recent general survey of bootcamps and short-format trainings
reports no measurable impact on skill development or research
productivity.

Software and Data Carpentry have taught workshops to over 27,000
learners in 35 countries around the world. Post-workshop survey reports
for Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry have consistently shown that
people like the workshops, that they know more about importing data sets
into R and Python to work with data, write functions, and initialize
repositories in git, and that they think they can apply skills
immediately to their work.

Our focus has always been on long term change, including: + Improving
learners’ confidence and motivation to use computational tools, +
Changing behaviors around reproducible research and effective
computational work, and + Increasing the frequency and types of
computing skills used. Therefore, we launched our first long-term
assessment survey in March 2017 to gather quantitative evidence about
specific behaviors our learners have adopted and continue to embody six
months or more after completing a Carpentries workshop.

Assessment specialists on staff and in the community developed an
instrument, based on existing instruments, for collecting information
regarding learners confidence and motivation to use the tools they
learned, and behaviors they adopted after attending a Carpentries
workshop. Rather than focusing on learners’ skills in particular tools,
we focused on assessing learner confidence, motivation and adoption of
good research practices, as these elements represent the primary goals
of our workshops. Confidence and motivation are important factors for
learners to have to continue their learning. They also promote community
building, a significant focus area of the Carpentries.

The final survey instrument included items for self-reported behaviors
around good data management practices, change in confidence in the tools
they learned, and other ways the workshop may have impacted learners
(ex. Improved research productivity). Over 530 people who took a
Software or Data Carpentry workshop 6 months or more ago responded to
our long-term survey. These results show that workshop respondents had a
positive impression of the workshop and the majority felt their skills
and perspectives have changed as a result of attending the workshop.
Results also show that these two-day impactful workshops are effective
for increasing skills and confidence. The impact of these workshops is
apparent in respondents’ coding practices. The majority of respondents
(70%) reported having improved their coding practices by using
programing languages like R or Python or the command line to automate
repetitive tasks, by reusing code for other purposes, or by using
databases to manage large data sets. Respondents have continued their
learning and incorporated use of these tools into their weekly or daily
work. Additionally, sixty-nine percent of respondents have made their
analyses more reproducible as a result of completing a Carpentries
workshop by reusing code and making their data and analyses available on
public repositories.

Not only do these two-day coding workshops increase respondent’s daily
programming usage, eighty-five percent of respondents have gained
confidence in working with data and open source tools as a result of
completing the workshop. The long-term assessment data showed a decline
in the percentage of respondents that ‘have not been using these tools’
(-11.1%), and an increase in the percentage of those who now use the
tools on daily basis (14.5%).


Highlights from our long-term survey

The majority of our respondents: + Gained confidence in the tools that
were covered during their workshop (85.3%). + Improved their coding
practices (63.1%). + Received professional recognition for their work as
a result of using the tools they learned (64.7%).

Respondents also substantially increased their frequency of use of
programing languages (R, Python, etc.), databases (Access, SQL, etc.),
version control software and/or the Unix shell, incorporating these
tools into their regular workflows. Nineteen percent of respondents
transitioned from using these tools once a month or less to weekly or
daily use per the figure below.

[alt text]

Respondents perceive the workshop had an impact on their confidence, as
well as their productivity, reproducibility and coding practices.
Interestingly, respondents also felt that the workshops had a positive
impact on their career as a whole, and some received recognition for
their work.

The figure below shows what impact survey respondents felt for several
factors including career, confidence, and continuous learning.
Respondents were asked to rate their level of agreement (1-Strongly
disagree to 5-Strongly agree) with the statements below. The x-axis
labels for the figure are in italics, and correspond to the statement
following. + _Reproducible_: I have made my analyses more reproducible
as a result of completing the workshop. + _Recognition_: I have received
professional recognition for my work as a result of using the tools I
learned at the workshop. + _Productivity_: My research productivity has
improved as a result of completing the workshop. + _Motivation_: I have
been motivated to seek more knowledge about the tools I learned at the
workshop. + _Confidence_: I have gained confidence in working with data
as a result of completing the workshop. + _Coding_: I have improved my
coding practices as a result of completing the workshop. + _Career_: I
have used skills I learned at the workshop to advance my career.

[alt text]

The figure shows that respondents _agree_ or _strongly agree_ that they
gained confidence in working with data (85.3%), made their analyses more
reproducible (69.4%), and receiving professional recognition for their
work (64.7%) all as a result of attending a Software or Data Carpentry
workshop.

From this figure we also see that there are opportunities to improve.
Motivation to seek more knowledge seems unchanging, likely because
learners who attend our workshops are already motivated. Perhaps these
learners remain enthusiastic, having high pre-workshop motivation
scores, rather than a decrease in motivation post-workshop. We’d also
like to see a shift in positive trend for learners using the skills they
learned to advance their career, which is why we are implementing round
two of the Carpentries Mentoring Program this fall.

Interested in reading more? The full report is available, and it
provides more detailed information about the motivation behind this
survey, respondent demographics, and growth opportunities. Take a look
at the report. We will continue to conduct this assessment at 6 month
intervals to capture feedback from people who took workshops 6 months or
more ago. Additionally, assessment will be the focus of our October
community call. Bring your thoughts to the community call October 19th!

The surveys used in this work, anonmyized data, and R scripts for
generating the figures are available in our assessment repository. This
report was made possible by community input from Ben Marwick, Belinda
Weaver, Naupaka Zimmerman, Jason Williams, Tracy Teal, Erin Becker,
Jonah Duckles, Beth Duckles, and Elizabeth Wickes. We thank you all so
much for your contributions to the code in this report and development
of our long-term survey!

If you have other questions about the data or results, please use the
data, re-analyze the results or ask your own questions!

What strikes you? Comment below, and tweet us your thoughts at
@datacarpentry @swcarpentry and @drkariljordan using the hashtag
#carpentriesassessment.

_Thanks to the Gordon and Betty Moore Data Driven Discovery initiative
for support of Data Carpentry and these assessment efforts._
