

“UPDATES FROM THE DATA CARPENTRY STEERING COMMITTEE ANNUAL IN-PERSON MEETING”


A brief review of the past year and plans for the year ahead"

Every year the Data Carpentry Steering Committee members and Executive
Director meet to review the previous year and strategically plan the
next one. This year’s meeting was January 31 - February 1, 2017 in
Durham, North Carolina, USA.

We started with a review of the previous year, and Data Carpentry has
grown in all of our areas of focus, including number of workshops,
number of instructors, types of curriculum, increased output of
communication, assessment efforts, mentorship, partnerships, development
of policies, involvement in grants, hiring of staff, and moves towards
financial sustainability.

-   We’ve gone from 31 workshops in 2015 to 78 in 2016.
-   Through onboarding and new instructors we now have 416 certified
    Data Carpentry instructors.
-   We have worked to put policies and processes in place that will help
    make activities scale more effectively and provide guidance and
    support to our volunteer instructors, as well as developing
    strategies for staff to prioritize and make progress on key
    projects.
-   We’ve increased volunteer engagement and communication with new blog
    series and guest posts from instructors.
-   With Software Carpentry we’ve built better ways to support the
    instructors, with debrief discussions that have been well attended,
    a mentorship subcommittee, and now a mentorship program for new
    instructors.
-   A significant shift over the last year has been an increased
    interest in development of curriculum, and we are working to support
    that interest.
-   We have also continued to gain visibility, with podcasts, mentions
    in articles and invitations to speak at and participate in
    conferences.

We are excited for future opportunities and want to continue to focus on
the community, re-commit to quality lessons, effective lesson
infrastructure, and to building a sustainable organization. A set of
motions and discussions guide those directions for the year ahead.

Motions

MOTION: WE WILL BEGIN A DISCUSSION WITH THE SOFTWARE CARPENTRY STEERING
COMMITTEE ABOUT A MERGER INTO A JOINT ORGANIZATION.

_Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry are two independently established
and operated organizations, but we share a common goal of promoting
education in reproducible science skills, both in data literacy (DC) and
software development (SWC) and values of community. We work together to
implement shared policies, memberships and coordinate staff and
leadership. Given the increasing levels of integration between DC and
SWC, the Data Carpentry Steering Committee passed this motion to begin
discussions. Software Carpentry has passed the same motion._

MOTION: A MAJOR FOCUS OF STAFF EFFORT OVER OVER THE NEXT 6 MONTHS WILL
BE TO FINALIZE THE EXISTING ECOLOGY, GENOMICS AND GEOSPATIAL LESSONS.

_Lessons in Ecology, Genomics and Geospatial data have been generated
and taught. We commit to finalizing these lessons to create a positive
and high-quality experience for both instructors and learners._

MOTION: A MAJOR FOCUS OF STAFF EFFORT OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS WILL BE
BUILDING THE NECESSARY PROCESSES FOR SCALING COMMUNITY-LED LESSON
DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE.

_With an increased interest in lesson development, a commitment to the
process of lesson development and maintenance will make curriculum
support and development sustainable and most effectively create lesson
development opportunities for the community._

MOTION: FOCUS OVER THE NEXT 12 MONTHS ON SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH
INCREASING THE NUMBER OF MEMBER ORGANIZATIONS AND
NON-MEMBER-ORGANIZATION WORKSHOPS.

_In order to align financial sustainability efforts with core
activities, we will focus on our programs of offering workshops and
Member Organization opportunities._

MOTION: WE COMMIT TO WORKING WITH THE CARPENTRY COMMUNITY TO DEVELOP AND
RUN A “CARPENTRYCON” IN 2018.

_Conferences provide participants opportunities to expand knowledge and
find solutions to problems, share ideas and work with others, meet other
people and learn beyond their areas of interest and experience. The
Carpentry community has expressed an interest in and would greatly
benefit from a conference opportunity. We want to commit to a
“CarpentryCon”, and to planning that will make this event as inclusive
and representative as possible._

Other Outcomes

We are hiring a COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LEAD who will focus on building
community, and the Steering Committee enthusiastically supports this
hire!

DIVERSITY is something that distinguishes us as an organization. It
needs to continue to be a conscious effort, and we will be setting
deliberate milestones to improve the diversity of our volunteers and the
communities we reach, geographically and underserved groups within
regions.

We will WORK TOWARDS A PROCESS WHERE INDIVIDUAL LESSONS CAN BE CERTIFIED
AS DATA CARPENTRY lessons, so we will have an ecosystem of both
workshops that we offer and individual lessons. Data Carpentry has so
far focused on lessons as a part of 2-day workshop curriculum. Often
however there are topics or subjects that don’t require a full two days
and could be taught as a part of a shorter workshop or as modules within
longer courses, and this model will support the development of those
types of lessons.

As people who have been involved in Data Carpentry since its beginnings,
we’ve been excited for the organization and community’s growth and move
toward sustainability, and we look forward to more work and
opportunities in the year ahead!
