

“OPEN CON BERLIN - IMPRESSIONS”


NA

Along with fellow Software Carpenters Rayna Harris and Paula Martinez, I
attended OpenCon 2017 held over the weekend of 11-13 November, 2017 in
Berlin. The conference was held in the Harnack Haus in Dahlem, the home
of the Max Planck Society, where the friendly ghosts of Einstein,
Heisenberg and other stellar scientists smiled on our endeavours to
promote open access, open education and open data.

[Harnack Haus, Dahlem]

This was a conference with a difference. Most conference goers were very
new to this area of work so there was a strong learning aspect to all
that unfolded over the three days. Many of the speakers had eye-opening
stories to tell about education’s role in transforming lives, whether it
be Kholoud Ajarma’s experiences of growing up in a Palestinian refugee
camp or Aliya Ibraimova’s work with remote grazing communities in the
Kyrgyz mountains.

[Rayna’s tweet]

While the largest cohort (50) were from the US, 47 different countries
were represented at OpenCon. Of the 186 listed in the attendance sheet,
132 attendees had GitHub accounts and even more used Twitter (160).

Sessions were a mixture of plenary sessions and small group work. As an
early icebreaker, we were put into groups called Story Circles, in which
everyone had eight (uninterrupted) minutes to explain what had led them
to apply for and attend OpenCon. The sheer diversity of backgrounds and
experiences unearthed by this kind of session was astounding. Hearing
Thomas Mboa describe teaching Nigerian students without having access to
electricity certainly put some of my own workshop issues into
perspective.

[My story circle]

Another eye-opener was the Diversity and Inclusion panel where
uncomfortable questions about ‘whose knowledge?’, ‘who has access?’, and
‘who is missing from the discussion?’ put paid to the idea that ‘open’
is a universal, unquestionable good. Speakers from the global south
stressed that making knowledge open can seem like a replay of having
that knowledge stolen from them during the colonial period. And if
‘open’ does not welcome people of all genders, sexual orientation, color
and other forms of diversity, then how ‘open’ it is really?

The quality and clarity of OpenCon recordings mean that these sessions
can easily be watched by anyone with an interest in what was said.
Footage of the Diversity and Inclusion panel also includes the
post-panel discussion.

To help build more local action post-conference, people could opt to
work with groups from their own region. Since I was the only Australian
there, I chose to work with an Asian group, and helped people from
Armenia and Taiwan create ‘empathy maps’ to try to understand the
concerns of researchers in their region who might want to work ‘open’
but who face formidable barriers, not least the kinds of behaviours
outlined by Laurent Gatto‘s and Corina Logan’s’Bullied by Bad Science’
campaign.

The final day of OpenCon was a DO-A-THON - what I would call a sprint or
hackathon. For this day, Rayna and Paula marshalled a team from Chile,
Argentina and other Spanish-speaking countries to work on the Spanish
translations of Carpentry lessons.

[Spanish translation Do-A-Thon]

This was certainly a one-of-a-kind conference and for those who missed
it, session recordings are available online, courtesy of the Right to
Research Coalition. The conference was phenomenally well-organised, with
terrific food, and people could opt to join Dine-Arounds to ensure that
no one had to eat dinner all alone in a strange city. I was very
interested in the organization of the conference as I was hoping to get
many tips I could use to make next year’s CarpentryCon in Dublin a
similar success.

The conference’s leading sponsor was the Max Planck Gesellschaft (Max
Planck Society), and the conference was jointly organised by SPARC (the
Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, and the Right to
Research Coalition. A number of other organisations and foundations were
supporting sponsors.

A floor tile at Harnack Haus was inset with Einstein’s signature - you
don’t see that every day.

[Albert Einstein signature]
