

“CARPENTRIES TRANSITION FROM FISCALLY SPONSORED PROJECT TO NUMFOCUS COMMUNITY ALLIANCE MEMBER”


NA

Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry have combined their separate
projects into a new project, now known as The Carpentries.

As part of this transition, Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry are
moving from Fiscally Sponsored Projects with NumFOCUS to The Carpentries
with Community Initiatives, whose fiscal sponsorship administration
services are better aligned with our emerging needs. The Carpentries
looks forward to new opportunities with NumFOCUS and will continue to
participate in the NumFOCUS Community as a new member of the NumFOCUS
Community Alliance.

As a Community Alliance member, we will be one of the organizations
whose mission intersects with that of NumFOCUS and reflects support for
open source scientific computing. NumFOCUS cross-promotes activities and
events held by members of their Community Alliance in a reciprocal,
supportive relationship. In particular, both organizations share a
commitment to increasing diversity and inclusion in the data community.

Software Carpentry joined NumFOCUS as a fiscally sponsored project in
2014, and Data Carpentry joined NumFOCUS as a fiscally sponsored project
in 2015. Over the ensuing years both Carpentries worked closely together
and in early 2017 began discussions about a merger. The merger was
approved last summer, and this January marks the milestone of a fully
merged project, The Carpentries, with a newly-elected Executive Council.

We are very grateful for the support of NumFOCUS through the initiation,
development and growth of Software and Data Carpentry, and for their
continued support through this transition to The Carpentries with
Community Initiatives. We look forward to continuing to work closely
with NumFOCUS as a member of their Community Alliance, to promote the
growth and development of the open source scientific computing
community.
