

“MENTORING GROUPS ARE BACK!”


‘If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go with others.’ - African Proverb"

In February, we held our mentoring groups virtual showcase, and
community members engaged with mentors and mentees virtually to hear
about the accomplishments they made over the course of their mentoring
experience. Not only were mentees able to finish their instructor
checkout tasks and contribute to the CarpentryCon taskforce, mentors
started local communities and reconnected with community members
globally.

You’ve expressed to us and each other the benefits these mentoring
groups have had on your growth in and outside of the Carpentries. You
are building powerful, and meaningful connections by developing peer
communities. Because of that, we want to continue to support these
groups, and give more community members the opportunity to join, either
as a mentor, or a mentee.

The next round of mentoring groups will run from April 9th to August
13th. Get a head start on joining a mentoring group by attending one of
two upcoming information sessions (to suit different time zones).
Sessions will be held on March 15th at 11:30 UTC and 20:30 UTC. Sign up
to attend either session on this etherpad.

Applications for both mentors and mentees ARE NOW OPEN, and due by March
23rd. Mentor applications are open to instructors who have taught at
least two workshops. Mentee applications are open to instructors who
have taught less than two workshops. If you’d like to serve as a mentor,
please complete the mentor application. If you’d like to be a mentee,
please complete the mentee application.

Many mentor/mentee relationships extend well beyond the program time.
Don’t miss out on the opportunity to connect, learn, and grow with
community members. Join a mentoring group!

Tweet us your thoughts (@datacarpentry, @swcarpentry, @thecarpentries,
@drkariljordan) using the hashtag #carpentriesmentoring.
